[OSDOCS#RHDEVDOCS-7687]: Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines 1.21.3 release notes (#114849)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-21-3.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * release_notes/op-release-notes-1-21.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-21-3_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} 1.21.3

[role="_abstract"]
With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.21.3 is available on {OCP} 4.14 and later supported versions.

[id="new-features-1-21-3_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

> .Pipelines as Code

Reviewer: Use attributes when possible.
```suggestion
.{pac}
```

Pipelines-as-Code informer caches consume less memory::

> With this update, Pipelines-as-Code informer caches use transform functions to remove large, unnecessary fields, such as `ManagedFields`, `Annotations`, `Status`, and `Spec`, from `Repository` and `PipelineRun` objects before they enter the cache. This change reduces per-object memory consumption by 89% to 94%, significantly lowering the memory footprint of the controller watcher pods in clusters with many cached objects. This change is internal and does not affect the functional behavior of user workloads; all required data continues to be fetched directly from the API when needed.

Reviewer: Attribute + suggestion:

```suggestion
With this update, {pac} strips large unused fields from cached objects in informer caches. This change reduces per-object memory consumption by up to 94%, significantly lowering the memory footprint of the controller watcher pods in clusters with many cached objects. This change is internal and does not affect the functional behavior of user workloads; all required data continues to be fetched directly from the API when needed.
```

+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-11061[SRVKP-11061]

[id="pipelines-fixed-issues-1-21-3_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> .Pipelines as Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.{pac}
```

Webhook validation prevents credential exfiltration to unauthorized servers::

> Before this update, when Pipelines-as-Code received a webhook from GitHub Enterprise, it read an unverified header in the request to determine which GitHub Enterprise server address to contact for an authentication token. As a consequence, an attacker could forge the server address in the header, causing the controller to send a valid GitHub App installation token to an attacker-controlled server. With this update, the controller validates the enterprise host header request. As a result, the GitHub App credentials cannot be exfiltrated to an unauthorized server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this update, when {pac} received a webhook from GitHub Enterprise, it read an unverified header in the request to determine which GitHub Enterprise server address to contact for an authentication token. As a consequence, an attacker could forge the server address in the header, causing the controller to send a valid GitHub App installation token to an attacker-controlled server. With this update, the controller validates the enterprise host header request. As a result, the GitHub App credentials cannot be exfiltrated to an unauthorized server.
```

+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-12216[SRVKP-12216]

GitHub App installation tokens are strictly scoped to the triggering repository::

> Before this update, GitHub App installation tokens issued during webhook processing were not scoped to the triggering repository by default, meaning they retained access to all repositories in the GitHub App installation. As a consequence, a user with push access to one repository could create a `PipelineRun` object with a remote task annotation pointing to a private repository in the same installation, exposing the contents of its Tekton definitions. With this update, installation tokens are scoped to only the triggering repository by default. As a result, remote task resolution for unauthorized private repositories fails with a 404 error.

Reviewer 2: ```
GitHub App installation tokens issued during webhook processing were not scoped to the triggering repository by default, meaning they retained access to all repositories in the GitHub App installation.
```
This makes it sound more sinister than it was. The issue was only seen if `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos` was not set in the configuration

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> **Action required:** If your `PipelineRun` objects fetch remote tasks or pipelines from other private repositories in the same installation, you must add those repositories to the `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos` parameter in the `pipelines-as-code` ConfigMap in a comma-separated `owner/repository` format.

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
The note is already IMPORTANT, if the user finds the RN entry neccessary for their usecase, they will most-likely read this.
+
"config map (noun)" in https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map

```suggestion
If your `PipelineRun` objects fetch remote tasks or pipelines from other private repositories in the same installation, you must add those repositories to the `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos` parameter in the `pipelines-as-code` config map in a comma-separated `owner/repository` format.
```
If you wish to keep it, remove the bold formatting: 

```suggestion
Action required: If your `PipelineRun` objects fetch remote tasks or pipelines from other private repositories in the same installation, you must add those repositories to the `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos` parameter in the `pipelines-as-code` config map in a comma-separated `owner/repository` format.
```

====
+
Additionally, this update fixes a bug where cached remote Pipeline and Task objects were mutated during inlining, causing subsequent `PipelineRun` objects referencing the same remote resource to receive corrupted definitions. Cached objects are now deep-copied before use.
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-12241[SRVKP-12241]

Admission controller correctly rejects duplicate repository configurations::

> Before this update, the Pipelines-as-Code admission webhook did not normalize repository URLs before checking for duplicates. As a consequence, multiple Repository custom resources could be created for the same repository if the URLs differed only by a trailing slash, causing configuration conflicts and unpredictable pipeline runs. With this update, the admission controller treats URLs with and without trailing slashes as identical. As a result, duplicate repository configurations are correctly rejected, preventing the creation of multiple resources for the same repository URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this update, the {pac} admission webhook did not normalize repository URLs before checking for duplicates. As a consequence, multiple `Repository` custom resources could be created for the same repository if the URLs differed only by a trailing slash, causing configuration conflicts and unpredictable pipeline runs. With this update, the admission controller treats URLs with and without trailing slashes as identical. As a result, duplicate repository configurations are correctly rejected, preventing the creation of multiple resources for the same repository URL.
```

+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-11295[SRVKP-11295]

.User interface
Approvals list view displays the Current status column correctly without text overlaps::

> Before this update, text components in the Current status column of the Approvals tab interface in the OpenShift console occasionally failed to render correctly. As a consequence, multiple status components rendered on top of one another, making the text superimposed and unreadable under certain screen sizes or user login sessions. With this update, the alignment logic for the status column is corrected. As a result, the status values render distinctly and are easy to read.

Reviewer: This might end up being quite long, but I don't think we have a shorter OpenShift attribute yet. 

```suggestion
Before this update, text components in the Current status column of the Approvals tab interface in the {OCP} web console occasionally failed to render correctly. As a consequence, multiple status components rendered on top of one another, making the text superimposed and unreadable under certain screen sizes or user login sessions. With this update, the alignment logic for the status column is corrected. As a result, the status values render distinctly and are easy to read.
```

> Before this update, text components in the Current status column of the Approvals tab interface in the OpenShift console occasionally failed to render correctly. As a consequence, multiple status components rendered on top of one another, making the text superimposed and unreadable under certain screen sizes or user login sessions. With this update, the alignment logic for the status column is corrected. As a result, the status values render distinctly and are easy to read.

Reviewer 3: LGTM!
